---
id: overview-faq
title: FAQ
sidebar_label: FAQ
---

---
description: Welcome to the NEAR documentation. Here's how to get around.
---

# Overview

## **NEAR Protocol is a scalable, developer-friendly platform for creating decentralized applications.**

Before we begin, it will be helpful to have a general understanding of:

* [Smart Contract Basics](prerequisites/the_basics.md)
* [Typescript](prerequisites/language-typescript.md)

#### [Quick Start](working-smart-contracts/)

The quickest way to get started is by coding in NEAR studio, our fully hosted IDE. Take a look at our [Near Studio walkthrough](quick-start/near-studio-ide.md).

If you want to build locally, take a look at:

* [Local development guide](quick-start/local-development.md)

Looking to start writing smart contracts? Take a look at:

* [Writing Contracts on NEAR](working-smart-contracts/writing-contracts.md)
* [Calling Contracts on NEAR](working-smart-contracts/calling-contracts.md)

#### [Tutorials](tutorials/)

The [Tutorials](tutorials/) section contains several tutorials which will help you learn how to build, test and deploy smart contracts.

We recommend you start with the Zero to Hero tutorial which will show you how to save complex data structures to the blockchain, and bridge on-chain and off-chain services.

* [Zero to Hero: Building an Oracle ](tutorials/zero-to-hero.md)
* [Create your own ERC-20 token smart contract](tutorials/token.md)
* [Writing contracts that talk to each other](tutorials/how-to-write-contracts-that-talk-to-each-other.md)

#### API Documentation

Here are the reference docs for all of our supported libraries. We actively support an AssemblyScript runtime \(TypeScript -&gt; WASM compiler\), a Rust runtime, the base RPC and a JavaScript library. These docs are auto-generated and less user-friendly! They should be used for advanced users and those who need to look up how something works.

* [Rust Contracts](api-documentation/rust-bindgen.md) covers the API for creating apps with Rust
* [TypeScript Contracts ](api-documentation/runtime-ts/)covers the same topic, but for AssemblyScript
* [RPC](api-documentation/rpc.md) covers the actual core API responses and actions you can call
* [nearlib.js](api-documentation/nearlib.js/) is autogenerated documentation for the JavaScript integration library

### Support & Community

If you have any questions about NEAR, you can get direct access to the team behind it and other members of the community through [Discord](http://near.chat).

