---
id: who-is-this-for
title: Who is this for?
sidebar_label: Who is this for?
---

The short answer is: **Anyone with an interest in NEAR Protocol.**

You may be a designer, developer, student, manager, engineer, artist, researcher, or you come from any other background. We are glad that you found your path to exploring what NEAR is all about!

- [Develop a NEAR App](/docs/roles/developer/quickstart)
- [Run a NEAR Validator](/docs/validator/staking-overview)
- [Integrate with NEAR](/docs/roles/integrator/quickstart)
- [Contribute to NEAR](/docs/contribution/contribution-overview)

---

If you're not sure what **NEAR Protocol** is, you should start with a soft intro.

* [What's NEAR?](/docs/overview/what-is-near)

#### Before we begin, it will be helpful to have a general understanding of:

* [Smart Contract Basics](/docs/quick-start/blockchain-prerequisite)
* [NEAR Smart Contract Development Overview](/docs/quick-start/development-overview)

## Quick Start

The quickest way to get started is by looking at our examples and exploring the code in gotpod (online IDE). Take a look at our [examples](http://near.dev).

#### If you want to build locally, take a look at:

* [Local development guide](/docs/local-setup/local-dev-testnet)

#### Looking to start writing smart contracts? Take a look at:

* [Writing Contracts on NEAR](/docs/roles/developer/contracts/intro)
* [Calling Contracts on NEAR](/docs/development/calling-smart-contracts)

In this section, you will also find more information on Near-specific methods and functions.

#### To learn more about becoming a validator, checkout the validator section:

* [Running a node](/docs/local-setup/running-testnet)

<!-- UNCOMMENT WHEN PAGE COMPLETE -->
<!-- #### For reference and code samples, have a look at -->
<!-- * [Common Code Patterns](code-patterns/token-issuance) -->

## Tutorials

The [Tutorials](/docs/tutorials/tutorial-overview) section contains several tutorials which will help you learn how to build, test and deploy smart contracts.

We recommend you start with the [Zero to Hero tutorial](/docs/tutorials/zero-to-hero) which will show you how to save complex data structures to the blockchain, and bridge on-chain and off-chain services.

* [Zero to Hero: Building an Oracle ](/docs/tutorials/zero-to-hero)
* [Create your own ERC-20 token smart contract](/docs/tutorials/near-studio/token)
* [Writing contracts that talk to each other](/docs/tutorials/how-to-write-contracts-that-talk-to-each-other)

An most importantly, we will show you how to test your smart contracts:
* [Test your smart contracts](/docs/tutorials/test-your-smart-contracts)

## API Documentation

Here are the reference docs for all of our supported libraries. We actively support an AssemblyScript runtime (TypeScript -&gt; WASM compiler), a Rust runtime, the base RPC and a JavaScript library. These docs are auto-generated and less user-friendly! They should be used for advanced users and those who need to look up how something works.

* [AssemblyScript Contracts](/docs/roles/developer/contracts/assemblyscript) -- covers the same topic, but for AssemblyScript
* [RPC](/docs/interaction/rpc) -- covers the actual core API responses and actions you can call
* [nearlib.js](/docs/nearlib/globals) -- is autogenerated documentation for the JavaScript integration library
* [Rust Contracts](/docs/near-bindgen/near-bindgen) -- covers the API for creating apps with Rust

## Support & Community

If you have any questions about NEAR, you can get direct access to the team behind it and other members of the community through [Discord](http://near.chat).

To find more about on how YOU can get involved, please checkout our [community section](/docs/contribution/nearcore)!
