---
id: nft-keys
title: NFT Keys Smart Contract
sidebar_label: NFT Keys Contract
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import {CodeTabs, Language, Github} from "@site/src/components/codetabs"


## NFT Chain Keys

The MPC contract provides a `sign` function that accepts a `path` parameter. This allows one predecessor account to have access to an effectively unlimited number of MPC keys.

The NFT chain key contract in this directory takes advantage of that property to allow MPC keys to be transferred between users, securely, using [the NEP-171 NFT contract standard](https://nomicon.io/Standards/Tokens/NonFungibleToken/Core).

## Usage

This contract conforms to a full suite of contract standards:

- [NEP-145: Storage Management](https://nomicon.io/Standards/StorageManagement)
- [NEP-171: NFT Core](https://nomicon.io/Standards/Tokens/NonFungibleToken/Core)
- [NEP-177: Metadata](https://nomicon.io/Standards/Tokens/NonFungibleToken/Metadata)
- [NEP-178: Approval Management](https://nomicon.io/Standards/Tokens/NonFungibleToken/ApprovalManagement)
- [NEP-181: Enumeration](https://nomicon.io/Standards/Tokens/NonFungibleToken/Enumeration)

Please refer to the corresponding documentation for usage information.

This contract also implements new functionality to enable the aforementioned chain key management features.

### Creating new key tokens

After [registering for storage](https://nomicon.io/Standards/StorageManagement), an account can mint unlimited new NFT chain keys using the `mint` method, as long as they have sufficient storage. The method is unlimited because it doesn't really cost very much to create a new NFT chain key&mdash;the value comes in what the key is used to do. The `mint` function does not accept any arguments, and returns the ID of the newly minted token.

### Issuing signatures

New signatures can be generated by calling `ckt_sign_hash` with a payload like so:

```json
{
  "token_id": "0",
  "payload": [
    156, 8, 177, 158, 80, 176, 41, 184, 237, 165, 187, 240, 235, 145, 121, 244,
    65, 29, 44, 161, 51, 56, 243, 238, 255, 78, 255, 22, 40, 71, 246, 81
  ]
}
```

The method will return the signature as a hexadecimal string:

```json
"ea58c007578b16f21ff28fd2aae22e7fd30376560f848582a32bca913bfced1d55eab4c3248efd0fa1a989a8a69a1841ac9e292c03125a20622fbe4da42ded5600"
```

### Approvals

While there already exists an approvals standard for _transferring_ NFTs, there does not exist an approvals standard for _using_ NFTs, which is an intrinsically different operation.

Therefore, this contract implements a separate set of approval management functions, which operate similarly to NEP-178 in some ways.

```rust
#[ext_contract(ext_chain_key_token_approval)]
pub trait ChainKeyTokenApproval {
    fn ckt_approve(
        &mut self,
        token_id: String,
        account_id: AccountId,
        msg: Option<String>,
    ) -> PromiseOrValue<Option<u32>>;
    fn ckt_revoke(
        &mut self,
        token_id: String,
        account_id: AccountId,
        msg: Option<String>,
    ) -> PromiseOrValue<()>;
    fn ckt_revoke_all(&mut self, token_id: String) -> near_sdk::json_types::U64;
    fn ckt_approval_id_for(&self, token_id: String, account_id: AccountId) -> Option<u32>;
}

#[ext_contract(ext_chain_key_token_approval_receiver)]
pub trait ChainKeyTokenApprovalReceiver {
    fn ckt_on_approved(
        &mut self,
        approver_id: AccountId,
        token_id: String,
        approval_id: u32,
        msg: String,
    ) -> PromiseOrValue<()>;
    fn ckt_on_revoked(
        &mut self,
        approver_id: AccountId,
        token_id: String,
        approval_id: u32,
        msg: String,
    ) -> PromiseOrValue<()>;
}
```

#### `ckt_approve`

Issue an approval to a receiving account. This allows the account to issue signatures on behalf of this token and all of its sub-paths.

#### `ckt_revoke`

Remove an approval from an account. This prevents the account from issuing more signatures.

#### `ckt_revoke_all`

Remove all approvals for a token. The equivalent of this function is called whenever a chain key NFT is transferred.


---

## Use Cases for NFT Keys

The NFT key contract makes the ownership of remote accounts both provable and transferrable. This new paradigm will allow for the creation of new end-user experience that leverage provable and transferrable remote accounts as a core primitive. 

:::info Disclaimer
The below ideas are just initial concepts, they are not fully fledged or thought out solutions.
:::

### Remote Account Marketplace

NFT Keys enable users to engage in buying, selling, and trading remote accounts within a marketplace-style application. For instance, User A, possessing a set of remote accounts with value and history, can mint an NFT key and list these accounts for sale on the marketplace. Potential buyers, like User B, can browse the value of User A's accounts and choose to make a purchase. If User B decides to proceed, they would simply need to acquire ownership of the original NFT key from User A in exchange for payment, such as in $NEAR. Once the transaction is completed, ownership of the accounts transfers to User B.

### Bridgeless Multi-Chain DEX

By combining Chain Signatures with NFT Keys, we can create a Multichain DEX without the need for bridging. Here's how it works: Users wishing to swap asset A for asset B would initiate the swap on the DEX. Supported by liquidity providers (Automated Market Makers) across multiple chains, the DEX facilitates these swaps. A user proposes the swap, specifying asset A in remote account X for asset B in remote account Y. The liquidity provider receives asset A from the user and sends the equivalent amount of asset B to a newly created remote account Y, along with a minted NFT key. The NFT key is then sent to the user, completing the swap. Although liquidity providers still need to leverage bridging for settling assets between different pools, users of this exchange type are exposed to reduced bridge risk.
